== Requirement ==

* Connected to Reliance Jio VPN
* User account must be admin (for Image Upload).

== Image Upload ==

To upload the image, download an ISO or harddisk image of the desired OS. Then use the following command:

<pre>glance image-create --name &quot;Test image&quot; --is-public true --disk-format raw --container-format bare\
  --file cirros-0.3.4-x86_64-disk.img</pre>

For details about <code>glance image-create</code> command, see [http://docs.openstack.org/cli-reference/content/glanceclient_commands.html glance command] or use <code>glance image-create -h</code> command.

== Boot from the above image ==

Once, the image is uploaded using the above step, you can boot the machine with following command:

<pre>nova boot --flavor &lt;Flavor id&gt; --block-device \
source=image,id=&lt;image id&gt;,dest=volume,size=&lt;Size in GB &gt;,shutdown=preserve,bootindex=0 \
 --nic net-id=&lt;Network Id&gt; &lt;Name&gt;</pre>

where

* Flavor Id: It mentions what flavor of the machine is required (small, medium, large etc.). To see the available flavor, use <code>nova flavor-list</code> command.
* Image Id: It mentions what image should be used in this machine. To see the available images, use <code>nova image-list</code> or <code>glance image-list</code> commands.
* Network Id: It mentions what network should the machine be connected. To see the available networks, use <code>neutron net-list</code> or <code>nova net-list</code> commands.
* Name: Name of the machine to be created.

Currently, machine is booted using volume on tenant, not using image.

For more details about <code>nova boot</code> command, see [http://docs.openstack.org/cli-reference/content/novaclient_commands.html#novaclient_subcommand_boot nova command] or use <code>nova boot -h</code> command.

== Tenant Creation ==

A tenant in openstack is identified by a project. Each tenant can be have multiple users.

To create a tenant or project, use

<pre>openstack project create &lt;Project name&gt;</pre>
where

* Project name: It must be a unique name given to the project.

Add user into project:

<pre>openstack user create -project &lt;Project name &gt; &lt;User name&gt;</pre>
where

* Project name: Name of an existing tenant
* User name: Name of the user. It must be unique.

To remove the user, use the following command:

<pre>openstack user delete &lt;User name&gt;</pre>
To remove the tenant or project, use:

<pre>openstack project delete &lt;User name &gt;</pre>
For more details about <code>openstack project</code>, see [http://docs.openstack.org/openstack-ops/content/projects_users.html project] or <code>openstack help project</code>.

== Quota (Compute) ==

Quota is limit of the resource usage for a user inside a tenant. This limit includes:

* instances: Instances of the machine
* cores: CPU cores
* RAM
* Floating IPs
* Fixed IPs
* Metadata Items
* Injected files
* Injected file content bytes
* injected file path bytes
* key pairs
* security groups
* security group rules

To get the list of current quota values, use the following command:

<pre>nova quota-show --user &lt;User name &gt; --tenant &lt;Tenant Id&gt;</pre>
If you do not mention tenant Id, it will show default quota.

To update quota, use

<code>nova quota-update --user &lt;User name&gt; &lt;quota name &gt; &lt; value&gt; &lt; tenant-id &gt;</code>
Quota name can be:

* <code>instances</code>
* <code>cores</code>
* <code>ram</code>
* <code>floating_ips</code>
* <code>metadata_items</code>
* <code>injected_files</code>
* <code>injected_file_content_bytes</code>
* <code>injected_file_path_bytes</code>
* <code>key_pairs</code>
* <code>security_groups</code>
* <code>security_group_rules</code>

-1 means no limit.

