= puppet-rjil: Manifest and Modules =

puppet-rjil contains codes related to deployment for JioCloud. Puppet code defines resources and artifacts related to resource. File which contains puppet code is known as manifest and has .pp extension.

Manifest(s) can be reusable by other users/resources. Such manifests can be combined into a module. <code>puppet-rjil</code> is a module which defines resources and other artifacts for a node.

Every node in puppet node is identified by its hostname and has the following format:

<pre>    (role)(number)\_(project_id)</pre>
<code>role</code> can be bootstrap, apache, st, gcp, cp etc. (More details can be found in <code>site.pp</code> file).

<code>puppet-rjil</code> is responsible for configuring every node to its correct configuration on the basis of its role.

== Directory structure ==

some important directories and files are:

* manifests - Puppet manifests for building JioCloud
* Vagrantfile: Vagrantfile for faster deployments
* Puppetfile: List of all puppet modules that need to be installed as dependecies
* build_script/deploy.sh - Script to deploy JioCloud
* site.pp: This file defines what module should be included by a node on the basis of its pattern in name. For example, bootstrap nodes are identified by the pattern &quot;^bootstrap[0-9]+&quot;. These nodes include rjil::base, rjil::jiocloud::consul::consul_alerts.

More details can be found in README.md of [https://github.com/JioCloud/puppet-rjil/blob/master/README.md <code>puppet-rjil</code>]

== Nova and Glance sub-module in puppet-rjil. ==

Nova nodes: These nodes use nova sub-module.

* oc Openstack controller node
* ocdb oc Database
* gcp Gateway compute node
* cp Compute node
* uc Undercloud Controller node

Glance nodes: These nodes use glance sub-module.

* oc
* ocdb
* oclb Openstack controller load balancer (lb stands for load balancer)
* uc

=== What is in nova sub-module? ===

nova sub-module has the following directory structure:

* nova
** compute
** rbd.pp: It setup ceph configurations for nova compute node.
** compute.pp: It setup nova compute.
** controller.pp: It setup nova controller.
** logrotate
*** manage.pp: It setup rjil::jiocloud::logrotate for nova-manage.
** zmq_config.pp: It setup nova config with ZMQ.

compute.pp and controller.pp are included in site.pp and these two files (classes defined in them) are interface of nova sub-module. Rest are helper for internal use for nova.

==== Setting up nova compute ====

In setting up nova compute, following steps are performed.

* Dependencies are setup:
** Python package python-six
** nova client
** nova
** nova compute
** nova network neutron
** nova copmute driver specific to class
* On the basis of compute driver (libvirt or ironic), it includes required modules
* Initialize log
* consul file for nova-compute is made
* Configuration file and required commands are executed.

=== What is in glance sub-module? ===

* glance.pp: It defines class rjil::glance for which in turn includes puppet modules and defines related resources (such as consul service).
** It setup glance registry and API (which is defined in puppet-glance repository).
** It defines the order that once glance-api and glance-registry services are running, then run httpd (httpd after glance-api and glance-registry).
** Based on the backend (swift, file, rbd, cinder), it includes the required module.
** It defines test check for glance-api and glance-registry.
** It registers consul service JSON files for glance-api and glance-registry and create policy.json file.

== Appendix ==

=== Details about puppet-rjil ===

Please refer README.md of puppet-rjil for mode details [https://github.com/JioCloud/puppet-rjil/blob/master/README.md README]

=== Important Links ===

* [https://docs.puppetlabs.com/pe/latest/puppet_modules_manifests.html Puppet Modules and Manifests]
* [https://docs.puppetlabs.com/module_cheat_sheet.pdf Puppet Module Cheat Sheet]
* [https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/dirs_manifest.html Directories: The Main Manifest(s)]

